# Blogging Platform - Backend
The Blogging Platform Backend is a Python project that uses FastAPI, PostgreSQL, and Swagger. It implements microservices for CRUD operations and includes an independent Email Microservice. The project emphasizes code quality with high unit test coverage and logging functionality. Authentication is achieved through JWT Bearer Token and OAuth with Google Account.


## Tech Stack 

* Python
* Pydantic
* FastAPI
* SQLAlchemy
* PostgreSQL
* Pytest
* Logging
* Postman
* Swagger


## Features
- [x] Microservice architecture for CRUD operations 
- [x] Independent Email Microservice integration
- [x] PostgreSQL database utilization
- [x] API testing with Postman
- [x] API documentation generated with Swagger/OpenAPI
- [ ] Logging functionality for error tracking and debugging
- [ ] Authentication with JWT Bearer Token & OAuth using Google Account
- [ ] High unit test coverage (over 90%)

## Getting Started
To get started with the Blogging Platform Backend project, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the GitHub repository:
```
git clone <repository-url>
```

2. Install the required dependencies. Make sure you have Python and pip installed. Use the following command:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Set up the PostgreSQL database and configure the connection details in the project's configuration files / environment variables.

4. Run the project's test suite to generate coverage report and ensure everything is set up correctly:

```
pytest --cov=. --cov-report=html
```

5. Start the development server:
```
uvicorn app:app --reload
```

6. Access the API documentation generated by Swagger at the following URL:
```
http://localhost:8000/docs
```

7. Use Postman or any other API testing tool to interact with the backend APIs.

## Contributing
If you would like to contribute to this project, please follow these guidelines:

Fork the repository and create your branch:

Acknowledgements
* `FastAPI` - The web framework used in this project
* `PostgreSQL` - The database management system used
* `Swagger` - The tool used to generate API documentation
* `Postman` - The API testing tool used 

Please refer to the documentation and official websites of these technologies for more information.

### Additional Commands
kill process in port: `Get-Process -Id (Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort "8000").OwningProcess | Stop-Process`